this week a special edition of the
listening post we're looking at Europe
digging into the discourse there the
coverage of Israel's war on Gaza
beginning in Germany Israel's most
Dependable Ally in the EU where shows of
support for Palestinians have been
suppressed demonized France where much
of the coverage is toxic and where the
debate on Gaza has been weaponized
against minorities plus the outlier that
is Ireland where there has been probing
criticism of Israel's actions from
politicians when does Palestine get the
right to defend itself and in the
media if the United States has aided
abetted and helped finance Israel's
campaign of ethnic cleansing in Gaza the
European Union has been complicit as
well like their allies in Washington EU
officials have provided their support
for Israel's war refusing to condemn it
the way they have hamas's attacks or
call for a ceasefire and while there is
significant empathy for Israel among
Europeans there is also growing public
opposition to this war along with
demands that their governments do more
to stop it across the EU there are
different shades in the news coverage
depending on which country you're in in
this special episode we will examine the
discourse around the conflict in three
countries we'll look at France where
some television news channels have
distorted the debate to suit their own
agendas and Ireland where support for
the Palestinians is more widespread and
far more tolerated but our starting
point is Germany it's the eu's largest
economy a country where historical guilt
over the Holocaust has created one of
the most pro-israel media climates
around and where dissenting voices are
routinely censored or intimidated into
[Applause]
silence
Germany's relationship with Israel is
unlike that of any other country it's a
relationship that goes beyond loyalty
and support ensuring Israel's security
and existence is part of what Germans
call ston the
country Germany's past the genocide of
almost 6 million European Jews during
the Holocaust informs every aspect of
the country's public and political
discourse around
Israel for many Germans Israel is above
reproach the outright support for Israel
in Germany constitutes a sort of a
comforting thought that okay the the the
people that we as Germans oppressed and
killed and treated so badly historically
now have their kind of own State and
everything is fine it's not so much that
Israel is supported in Germany because
we come to term with its past but it's
shortcut for for not really coming to
terms with our past when Germany
categorized Israel's National Security
as their reason of State they
essentially wanted to solve their
problem of being described as the
original anti-semites of the world they
want to put the past behind them so
Germany instead of listening to their
actual je citizens instead of fighting
anti-Semitism in a way that protects all
Jewish people what it has done instead
is take a vehemently and staunch
pro-israel stance where they essentially
can can do no
wrong in this atmosphere of unwavering
political support for Israel German
media Outlets have also shown pro-israel
bias in their reporting this is
reflected in the one-sidedness of talk
show
debates
[Music]
for built the biggest newspaper in
Germany Hamas freed Israeli hostages
while Israel freed Palestinian
terrorists and mainstream Outlets from
Ard the public broadcaster to Media
conglomerate Axel Springer have issued
strict guidance to their journalists on
this story Ard sent an internal memo to
its journalists where in it it states
that um if any civilian deaths take
place it has to be stated as these
civilians are being used as human
Shields and this was provocated by
Hamas if that's the only image that
Germans see then the public are not
going to understand actual scale of this
war and just how much violence has been
inflicted on an innocent civilian
population Axel Springer has like
support for Israel written into its work
contract so if you work as a journalist
for one of their Outlets say bu saong
which is the biggest new newpaper in the
German media landscape or devel you are
kind of committed already from the g go
regardless of what your personal views
might be to report in a pro-israeli way
what that often translates to is
literally outright support of Israel
government policies built newspaper is
the most widely read newspaper in
Germany and it's journalistic standards
if one can call them that are pretty
unspeakable then you have the velt which
is slightly more highbrow but
ideologically it's cut from the same
cloth and then you also have
desiger which recently ran an article
about greater tunberg you can only call
it a hitpiece really just this this
absurd personal attack on her because
she has recently been quite vocal about
her support for Palestine we try to
speak to Ard and Exel Springer but
neither Outlets granted us an interview
or a statement and those in Germany who
go against a grain on this story risk
being blacklisted or sidelined
journalists challenging the prevailing
narrative in newsrooms have been fired
exhibitions workshops and conferences in
the cultural sphere have been cancelled
or delayed peaceful protests have been
either banned criminalized or violently
repressed now Germany has one of
Europe's largest Palestinian diasporas
but it's also become one of the most
censored places for anyone who expresses
solidarity with Palestinians or anyone
who speaks out against Israel's war
crimes in Gaza there's an increasing
climate of censorship in Germany in the
last um 5 to six weeks a climate of kind
of Botox McCarthyism it's really quite
intense cers have been forbidden in
schools like symbols of the Palestinian
flag symbols of Palestinian identity
have been forbidden anything that can
basically be interpretable as
anti-semitic and that's a very sort of
like wide range of things for in the
German Society has been kind of
damned I don't believe Germany has come
to terms with its past because what
they're doing is stifling
conversation stif in any progress or any
sort of critical discourse and now
because the spotlight has been shun on
Germany and and German discourse more
and more people are realizing that this
is not fighting
anti-Semitism this
is
attacking
Palestinians essentially Palestinian
existence is offensive to many in
Germany that's the simplest way to put
it really because Palestinians interfere
with this utopian narrative that that
the Holocaust was at least slightly
balanced out by the foundation of Israel
in terms of the moral and cultural
identity that Germany promotes of itself
it's hard for Palestinians to find a
place which doesn't just involve
demonization or
[Music]
eraser Germany is the EU state where
debate on the war in Gaza is most
heavily censored France may be the
country where the discourse is at its
most intense and volatile France is home
to both Europe's largest community of
Jews and its biggest Muslim population
so its citizens are more invested in
this conflict than most especially since
it has been Fanning the Flames of both
anti-Semitism and islamophobia there the
macron government has been strident
about which side it's on supporting bans
placed on pro- Palestine demonstrations
by local authorities and much of the
media have effectively taken the same
view news outlets owned by conservative
billionaires have been pedling Israeli
talking points and weaponizing this war
to go after some familiar targets
immigrants Islam and the political left
the listening posts Mino shiravi now on
some of the factors that feed into the
intensity around France's debate on the
Israel go a
war October 10th 3 days after hamas's
attack on Israel and France's most
watched news channel bfmtv is reporting
an incendiary claim that among hamas's
victims were 40
[Music]
infants the reporter making that claim a
claim which was soon disproven was not
one of bm's own he worked worked for I24
news an Israeli Pro Netanyahu channel
that has the same owner as bfm the
French Israeli billionaire Patrick drai
it was I24 news that first reported the
dead baby's claim babies their heads cut
off that's what they said throughout
this war bfm has relied on I24 news for
much of its coverage and it
shows bfm TV has acted as a message
relay medium for the Israeli military
a lot of space was given to a
representative of the army and that gave
him a platform to spread
propaganda the fact that there is a
through line from a propaganda Channel
like I24 news to a French News Channel
which is required to cover the news
impartially is an ethical problem I
don't even dare to imagine the reaction
in France if we had a 24-hour Outlook
that broadcast content from a Russian
Channel there's impunity when it comes
to
Israel senior editorial staff at bfm
have themselves taken issue with the
Channel's coverage complaining to
management about a lack of balance among
their misgivings the repeated interviews
with a certain Julian
bahul described to viewers as a French
Israeli living in Tel Aviv or a
specialist in his Israeli Society bahul
is in fact a former spokesperson for the
Israeli military as well as a former
journalist for I24 news bfm did not
respond to our request for comment
however some of those disgruntled
journalists at the channel say its
reporting has begun to improve coverage
of the war by France's publicly funded
news outlets and some of its newspapers
has been more evenhanded but that still
leaves plenty of others in an
increasingly right-wing media landscape
pushing some dubious divisive
narratives I've often had the impression
that the French media were telling us a
story of civilization against
[Music]
barbarism several commentators have told
us we absolutely cannot compare a child
killed by Hamas on October 7th and a
baby killed by Israeli bombings in
Gaza
what has greatly affected the media
coverage is that there are very very few
Palestinian voices on TV panels in most
cases there are none we are invisible in
the French media landscape and so there
are no voices to provide a
counternarrative to correct lies to
correct an analysis that has dehumanized
the Palestinian cause instead for two or
three weeks we found ourselves in an
endless debate about who considers Hamas
as a terrorist group who does not who
condemns it who does not without ever
going into the real issues in any
depth 2015 in France we have been very
sensitive to the risk of islamist
attacks and what we saw on October 7th
reminded us of the attacks we've had in
France so it was the nature of October
7th that led to it being interpreted in
that way even so all opinions are
represented in the French media as they
are in most western media and as I would
hope at Al jazer as
well the discourse in France over the
war in Gaza is unique because of two
factors one historical the other
demographic there was fr his role in the
World War II Holocaust when the
government installed by the Nazi
occupation helped deport an estimated
75,000 Jews to the death camps and
modern day France is home to Europe's
largest populations of both Jews and
Muslims that Demands a delicate approach
on the part of the macron government
which for the most part has been missing
macron's interior Minister Geral Daman
set the tone quickly imposing a
nationwide ban specifically on Pro
Palestine protests citing a risk of
quote public recorded
disturbances France's Top Court later
watered down that policy which
demonstrators had ignored anyway risking
arrest in their thousands dharma's
lopsided approach towards bigoted
attacks has also riled people since
early in the war he has toured French TV
studios sharing government figures on
the surge in anti-semitic incidents it
took weeks of pressure from Muslim
Community leaders before Dar manam
published the stats for islamophobia
which has also spiked multiple
right-wing voices in the media have been
using the rise in anti-Semitism to
delegitimize Pro Palestine protesters
and to demonize
Muslims during the war the issue of
islamophobia has somewhat disappeared
from the coverage what's more there are
islamophobic media outlets in France the
most scandalous is C news owned by the
billionaire vanon bore who is a Catholic
fundamentalist he has become extremely
powerful and his news Outlet spread
islamophobia on C News hosts like Pascal
prod or Sonia Muk always emphasized that
Muslims can't integrate that they can't
understand the values of the French
Republic these media personalities read
the Israel Palestine conflict as the
expression of an incompatibility between
democracy and the Arab Muslim
world the coverage by these farri news
outlets has argued that if we are pro
Palestinian we are necessarily
anti-semitic and drawing links with
theories about terrorism and islamism
but we must not forget that many people
from immigrant backgrounds in Europe
come from the history of
decolonization we are facing one of the
last Colonial conflicts in the world and
so it's normal that people who come from
these anti-colonial struggles rally
around the Palestinian
cause there is one country in Europe
that hasn't lined up behind Israel the
closest thing the EU has to an outlier
Ireland its government has used words
like disproportionate to describe
Israel's bombing of Gaza terms like
Collective punishment and opposition
politicians there have taken it further
way back in 1980 Ireland became the
first EU government to call for
Palestinian statehood there is an
affinity with Palestinians that is
rooted in a shared history of
colonialism occupation and division
under British rule Ireland's political
consensus on Palestine is for the most
part reflected in its media news outlets
have provided the kind of Journalism
that while hardly radical cannot be
found almost anywhere else in Europe
giving space to both Israelis and
Palestinians the listening posts Tarak
NAFA now on how the war on God is
playing out across Irish politics and
media it's genocide openly declared and
carried out by the aparti state of
Israel the Irish position is somewhat of
an outlier H amongst European nations
Ireland has been quite vocal about
calling for an end to what's going on on
the ground would you accept the
accusation by the Irish government that
that seems to have been really driven by
Revenge there is a lot of criticism from
Irish politicians of the Israeli
offensive in Gaza and the overall
position of the Israelis when it comes
to the West Bank so the media tends to
reflect that the debate around Palestine
in Ireland is unlike almost anywhere
else in Europe you can hear it in the
language used by prime minister Leo vka
but I have huge Sympathy for the
Palestinian people um they've been
horribly treated now for 75 years and
it's evident in the positions held
across the political Spectrum when when
does Palestine get the right to defend
itself in the voices you hear on the
streets and it's echoed in the Irish
media their approach to the story and
the questions they're asking if you are
killing people who are of a particular
nationality or of a particular ethnicity
that is the very legal definition of
genocide absolutely not because we are
not the coverage of Israel and the um
mechanizations of the Israeli government
have been quite impartial I've written
opinion pieces that have called for a
cease for us straight away and for the
Carnage to stop that's controversial in
other
jurisdictions but I feel like this is a
normal logical thing to call for I
wouldn't necessarily say anything is
radical about it the position is Irish
people have compassion for what is
happening in Gaza when they see dead
children dead doctors dead nurses dead
civilians there's no position in Ireland
that is critical of Israel's right to
defend itself or Israel's right to exist
or anything like that there is the same
amount of compassion for those who are
the victims of hamas's savage attack
it's just that I think the feeling in
Ireland is that the innocent civilians
in Gaza shouldn't pay the price for what
Hamas has done Ireland's Affinity with
Palestine is shaped by the country's
Colonial past and a shared history of
resistance to British rule Ireland was
Britain's oldest Colony the tools of
control Britain used there suppression
violence and division informed British
colonial rule elsewhere in the world
including in Palestine and then there is
Islands more recent history the Civil
conflict in Northern Ireland known as
the troubles and the difficult
sacrifices Ireland has made in the
pursuit of Peace which some suggest
offers a template to Palestinians and
Israelis Miracles are hard to believe in
but it's worth remembering that we are
currently living our own Miracle on this
island and for all those in Israel and
Palestine tonight it mightn't seem like
it but there's always hope and we hope
that your Miracle comes soon Ireland has
fought British colonialism has
experienced imperialism we have our our
Legacy of experiencing ethnic cleansing
forceable transfer genocide through
hunger and starvation so Ireland has a
natural affiliation when it comes to
standing in solidarity with other
colonized people of course there are uh
those on the island of Ireland who would
find Affinity with uh the Israeli state
but in many ways it is the The Stance of
the Irish people is in standing strong
in favor of of Palestine and Palestinian
Liberation beyond the shared history of
Oppression what explains the Irish
position is a grasp of reality I think
our military uh neutrality has a lot to
do with that when you see a piece of
land and its people being bombarded by
an extraordinarily well-resourced
military the call for piece is a is a
pretty obvious one our foreign policy
has been very consistent for decades and
not just on the issue of the two State
solution for Palestine but our adherence
to multilateralism Ireland has has had
its own peace process and to do that we
had to H get our diaspora on board we
had to have international friends to
help us along the way and I think the
feeling in our is the Palestinians don't
have any
friends the Irish are seen as advocates
for Palestinian rights in a continent
that has mostly stood shoulder Tosh
shoulder with
Israel however Ireland's conservative
government has faced criticism from the
opposition for not going far enough that
the recitation of all of our
interventions and char itable acts for
the Palestinian people do not relieve
you as a government of your primary
responsibility to hold Israel
accountable to the world for its acts of
the government has been vocal but its
actions have been limited it has not
recalled its ambassador to Israel or cut
diplomatic ties like a number of
countries across the global South
Ireland May stand out in Europe but the
discourse and its Poli ICS and its media
shows that its stance is hardly
radical the discourse and the language
that is used at a European level is
echoed by the Irish government and that
in and of itself will find itself into
the mainstream media so we are viewed in
Europe as being somewhat of an outlier
but that's still a relatively
conservative position we may say one or
two words differently to our European
counterparts but that isn't a huge
difference Ireland was very much behind
you know the most the the language
around condemning Hamas um releasing the
hostages Israel's right to defend itself
would wanted to ensure that amongst all
of that was this the Palestinian
civilians that they would have their
rights observed under International
humanitarian law it can use its Small
Voice to ensure that the Palestinians
are not forgotten the civilians in
Palestine in Gaza are not
forgotten
you've been watching a special edition
of the listening post on the news
coverage the discourse surrounding
Israel's unprecedented assault on the
Gaza Strip a story which has exposed
deep divisions within European societies
and differences between EU States watch
this space for where this story goes
next